Please answer the below core-java Questions:

What is programing language?
A.




What jdk contains or composed of and define each components?
A.





What is IDE?
Answer: An IDE stands Integrated Development Environment is a software suite that consolidates the
   basic tools developers need to write and test software. Typically, an IDE contains a code editor, a
   compiler or interpreter and a debugger that the developer accesses through a single graphical user
   interface (GUI).

Answer: Eclipse, Intellij Idea, NetBeans, AndroidStudio, Enide Studio 2014, BlueJ, jEdit,
   jGRASP, JSource, JDeveloper, DrJava etc.

   Explain the entire java life cycle.
   Answer: Programmer use any text editor to create high level Java text file.This file is saved as a
        .java file on the disk.Then compile this text file using the Java compiler, which result
        in a .classfile being created on the disk. The .class file contains the bytecodes.
         The file is then loaded into memory by the class loader. The bytecode verifier confirms that
         the bytecodes are valid and not hostile. Finally, the JVM reads the bytecodes in memory and
         translates them into machine code

   what is class?
   Answer: Class is a blueprint from which individual objects are created.
        Classes have data and methods, data represents state and methods behavior. Class is just a logical framework.
        So, a class is a template for an object and object is an instance of a class

   What is object?
   Answer: Object is an instance of the class and Object is the physical reality.

   What is the entry point of an application?
   Answer: Main method is the entry point of an application.

   Why main is static?
   In order to call a method need to have a object of that method. As main method
   is gateway to the java application JVM need to enter into main method in order
   to execute. Static key word let JVM to call main method without  object.

Which class is the superclass of all classes?

What is difference between path and classpath variables?

What is the difference between an Interface and Abstract class?
Answer:  A class that contains one or more abstract methods , and therefore can never
   be instantiated. Abstract classes are defined so that other classes can
   extend them and make them concrete by implementing the abstract methods.
    An interface in the Java programming language is an abstract type
   that is used to specify a behaviour that classes must implement.
   Interfaces are declared using the interface keyword, and may only
   contain method signature and constant declarations(variable declarations that
   are declared to be both static and final).

Can you make an Object from an Interface and Abstract class ? if not how do you use it ?
Answer: No we can not create object in Interface and Abstract class.
   Interface contains methods to be implemented, in abstract class we can implement some of them
   and can create more new methods as required keeping at least one abstract method.
   later abstract class can be extended and create and concrete class where there will be no
   abstract methods.

what is Access Specifier?
 Access Specifier is to determine the visibility of methods and variables.

What is OOP ? Define each feature of java OOP.
Answer: OOP. Stands for "Object-Oriented Programming." Refers to a programming methodology based on
          objects, instead of just functions and procedures. These objects are organized into classes,
          which allow individual objects to be group together.
          Features of java OOP:
          1. Encapsulation
          2. Inheritance
          3. Polymorphism
          4. Abstraction

What is Java Package and which package is imported by default?

What is API? Name list of API that you have used so far.
Does java support multiple inheritance, explain why or why not?
What is method overloading and when it happens?
Explain exceptions in java and how to handle it.
What is static keyword in java? How it has been used in variables and methods ?
What is final and how it has been used variables and methods?
What is final, finally and finalize?
What is a constructor ?
Can we have multiple constructors in a class?
If we don't have a constructor declared, what is called during the object creation?
What is "this" keyword in java ?
What is "super" keyword in java? How many possible way can you use?
What is JVM stand for ?
Is JVM platform independent?
What version of java are you using?
What is JAR stand for ?
What is the difference between JDK and JVM?
What is the difference between JVM and JRE?
What is compile time and run time?
What is heap?
How java manage it's memory?
What is the difference between String, StringBuffer and StringBuilder?
What is Singleton class?
What is Serialization and Deserialization?
when to use transient variable in java?
Difference between while and do..while loop?
What is Enum?
What is Iterator?
Which one will take more memory, an int or Integer?
Why is String Immutable in Java?
What is constructor chaining in Java?
The difference between Serial and Parallel Garbage Collector?
What is JIT stands for?
Explain Java Heap space and Garbage collection?
Can you guarantee the garbage collection process?
What is the difference between stack and heap in Java?
What is reflection in java and why is it useful?
what is multithreading in java?
What is the use of synchronization in Java?
What is Framework?
What are the testing Framework available in java?
Difference between jUnit and testNG?
What are the dependencies for this project?
what is dependency injection in java?
What is static binding and dynamic binding?









